One of the important things about testing
is that you only test
what the function does.
Nothing else, if you're testing
a service that calls HTTP client,
you're not testing HTTP clients ability
to do its job, there's test for that.
So if I were looking at, Let me see here.
What does this method right here,
what does it do?
Just read it out loud and
you'll probably get a pretty good hint.
>> Returns-
>> Return the action.
>> Challenges.
>> Yeah, so,
it's loading challenges, right?
What is it actually doing in the function?
>> Calling the API.
>> Yeah, it's calling dispatch.
And so, if we are going to
test just what this function
does, What do we verify?
>> That we got a 200.
>> No, not even that.
It's when I call load challenges,
I need to just verify
that the load challenges
action was dispatched.
And actually not even that,
I need to verify that this function
load challenges called dispatch with
this object, that's what I verify.
Cuz that's all it's doing, is you're
just testing has it delegated correctly.
And when you have
functions that appear and
you are avoiding any kind of
transformation logic in it,
they're very easy to test.
And I believe that, I wanna say
probably 70 to 80% of your code,
if you do it correctly,
you're just testing
the delegation mechanism because-
>> Just the call.
>> Yeah, but does the test runner
have a quick pass, fail, yes, no,
yes, no, yes, no?
>> I mean, so okay, back to the spec.
What we're doing here is
we're spying on dispatch.
We are creating a fake action, so
arrange a cert test, and we are saying
that when we call selectChallenge that
it should have been
called with this action.
Loadchallenges on load.
So this is exactly right here.
So what are we spying on, dispatch.
And we're saying when we call
loadChallenges that we expect that,
The spy was called with this action.
That's it.
>> [COUGH] So
you're coding is pretty minimal
of the unit test harness.
You have to get good at expect
statements and things like that.
It's a one liner, right?
>> I try very hard to
make my code as small and
precise as possible because this is very,
very easy to test.
Arrange.
Act, and even I have some arrange
happening underneath of it, so
it's not written in stone.
But it's just arrange, act, assert.
But ideally, you're looking to test
typically one statement
within the function.
So we talked about mocks, spies.
That's the provide mechanism with
use value, use class, use object.
The next piece,
if your functions are small enough,
all you're doing is spying on the function
that's being called inside the function.
Really, really, really simple and
I can say for
somebody who has been victimized and
traumatized from bad
tests that I'm learning,
and I'm just healing in my heart
to learn to love tests like this,
cuz it's really quite simple.
>> And you use the built-in spec
file with the Just command then.
>> Yeah, so
we're using Just as the test runner and
which I believe is built with
whatever assertion they have.
So let's look at, Maybe just a few more,
because I think that just
that piece right there,
if we can just converge on that.
How do you satisfy dependencies?
How do you spy on functions?
You are light years ahead and a lot of
times the reason why people have a really,
really hard time writing test
is because they're trying
to test something that's
not really testable so,
What do you think we're testing here?
This will be the last one.
And then I will leave you to,
Go explore this application and
the website and-
>> See if it's in the endpoints.
>> Not that it's hitting it.
>> That is calling it.
>> That's calling it, as if you have a
function that's calling another function.
You just have to validate that
the delegation has happened.
And that is conceptually a lot easier
than when you have a method
that's doing 22 things.
It's impossible.
I wouldn't even try.
The Angular team has actually
even done a good job of
providing a testing module,
a testing controller, and
This is a little interesting
because it is asynchronous,
that there's this flush
method that you make a call.
And what we're doing is, in this case.
We're kind of doing two things here.
And I'm going to permit it because this
is, I think, what has been prescribed.
But we're calling it and this right
here I think we could do without,
but it's here so I'm not gonna rip it out.
But what I really care about is, well,
I think what's happening is
that we're calling service.all,
and so we have to call the method, so
we may as well validate
the result in some way.
That's fine, I think we probably
don't need to do that but
it kind of in a way contradicts
a little bit what I'm saying.
But I would not throw a chair
through a window if somebody did it.
It's just, I would say,
do you really need to do this right here?
I think, if anything,
we just need to call it.
Well, the one thing I,
actually, let me back up.
So because subscribe or
observables are lazily
instantiated, is that you have to call.
And so you're getting a result anyways.
So I think at this point,
it's like, well, let validate it.
But here, we called it and
we're saying, hey,
we expected one call to this URL.
So we're saying this is the expectation,
this is what we
expected the request to be,
and then we're calling flush,
which essentially,
it basically simulates an HTTP call.
And from there, we're validating it.